	-----Java OOPs Concepts---

OOPs (Object Oriented Programming System)

java oops conceptsObject means a real word entity such as pen, chair, table etc. Object-Oriented Programming is a methodology 
or paradigm to design a program using classes and objects. It simplifies the software development and maintenance by providing some concepts:

Object
Class
Inheritance
Polymorphism
Abstraction
Encapsulation


Object

Any entity that has state and behavior is known as an object. For example: chair, pen, table, keyboard, bike etc. It can be physical and logical.

Class

Collection of objects is called class. It is a logical entity.

Inheritance

When one object acquires all the properties and behaviours of parent object i.e. known as inheritance. It provides code reusability. It is used to achieve runtime polymorphism.

polymorphism in java oops concepts
Polymorphism

When one task is performed by different ways i.e. known as polymorphism. For example: to convince the customer differently, to draw something e.g. shape or rectangle etc.

In java, we use method overloading and method overriding to achieve polymorphism.

Another example can be to speak something e.g. cat speaks meaw, dog barks woof etc.

Abstraction

Hiding internal details and showing functionality is known as abstraction. For example: phone call, we don't know the internal processing.

In java, we use abstract class and interface to achieve abstraction.

encapsulation in java oops concepts
Encapsulation

Binding (or wrapping) code and data together into a single unit is known as encapsulation. For example: capsule, it is wrapped with different medicines.

A java class is the example of encapsulation. Java bean is the fully encapsulated class because all the data members are private here.

Advantage of OOPs over Procedure-oriented programming language

1)OOPs makes development and maintenance easier where as in Procedure-oriented programming language it is not easy to manage if code grows as project size grows.
2)OOPs provides data hiding whereas in Procedure-oriented programming language a global data can be accessed from anywhere.
3)OOPs provides ability to simulate real-world event much more effectively. We can provide the solution of real word problem if we are using the Object-Oriented Programming language.
Global Data	Object Data
What is difference between object-oriented programming language and object-based programming language?

Object based programming language follows all the features of OOPs except Inheritance. JavaScript and VBScript are examples of object based programming languages.
